- [Instructor] If your team is looking
for a streamlined Git workflow,
you might consider trunk-based development.
Trunk-based development, also known as TBD,
is a workflow where developers center their collaboration
around a single branch known as trunk.
Now in Git,
the naming for this branch is a little different.
Instead of trunk, it's called main.
Just know that throughout this chapter,
I'll be using these names interchangeably.
No matter what you call it,
the main idea behind TBD is that trunk is the branch
where the development team shares their code
and that there are no long-lived branches off of it.
Teams that practice trunk-based development
have some choices to make about how to go about it.
So let's talk through the workflow,
and I'll discuss a few of those choices.
We'll start with the basic development flow.
Smaller teams with a very high release cadence may choose
to push changes directly to trunk.
In this version of the workflow,
developers clone the repository to their local workstation
and then commit all of their changes against trunk,
so the main branch.
Once the work has been completed for a feature,
changes are merged from the main branch
on the local repository
directly into the main branch
on the team's shared repository in GitHub.
For larger teams
or teams that may not release as frequently,
this workflow may be a little bit too streamlined.
These teams often find
that using short-lived feature branches with TBD
is more productive.
The development workflow follows a similar pattern
to what we saw with the GitHub workflow.
When developers need to work on a new feature,
they'll create a feature branch
for each new feature off of trunk.
Here they'll perform their work, and when it's ready,
they'll push the branch to the shared repository
and merge it into the trunk branch using a pull request.
What's important if you choose to use feature branches
is that the branches are very short lived,
probably a day or two at the longest.
After your team has chosen a development workflow,
you'll need to decide upon a release strategy.
Here you'll have two options.
The first is to release directly from trunk,
which works well for teams that are releasing changes
at a rapid pace.
For teams with a slower cadence,
let's say weekly or monthly, the other option
is to create a release branch off of the trunk branch
a few days before each release.
Creating a release branch allows developers
to continue to work against trunk
without impacting the upcoming release.
If an issue is discovered with the release,
the changes are first made in trunk
and then merged into the release branch
using a cherry-pick of a single commit.
This ensures both trunk and the release branch
receive the new changes for the hotfix.
Just like GitHub flow,
you'll want to have strong automation in place
to build, verify, and deploy the changes
developers merge into trunk.
Having a mature CI/CD pipeline isn't optional
when using TBD,
because without it you wouldn't receive any feedback
regarding your changes,
which can create some major issues
when it comes to production.
So we covered the core concepts
behind trunk-based development
and how the workflow handles certain situations.
There are some advanced techniques you can use with TBD,
like feature flagging, which we'll cover in our next lesson.